---
layout: post
title: "Surabaya"
date: 2015-11-21 16-10-24
published: false
---


As I arrived in Surabaya, the square in front of the train station was swamped with taxi drivers. At four in the morning. "Hey, where you going?", "Hey, friend! Taxi!", "Hey boss, special price!" The same crap I've had to endure ever since...reaching Turkey or so. I wasn't really in the mood for that garbage.

So I walked past them, ignoring them so forcefully that they just stopped pestering people. That's right, they just stopped doing that. Forever. You're welcome!

The result of my impressive aloofness must have been many a conversation between taxi drivers along these lines.

Nyoman (smoking): Hey, did you see that? That guy walked right past us!

Ketut (also smoking): That there haughty-looking fellow? Yeah, I saw!

Nyoman: But I called him "boss" and "friend" and everything! Twice!

Ketut: Did you mention the special price?

Norman: Of course, and yet he walked right past me!

Ketut (smoking more): That's odd. Do you think that maybe...no, that's bizarre.

Nyoman (suddenly not smoking): What?

Ketut: Well, this is going to sound ridiculous, but...what if he didn't like our direct sales strategy?
Nyoman: Huh? But our core demographic loves yelling-based marketing! The only thing they love more is generous patting and grabbing, but that's a focused instrument best left for later stages of the sales process...

Ketut: True, but what if our anecdotal market research is tainted by confirmation bias? What if a key market segment would prefer a more customer-initiated transaction?

Nyoman: That sounds counter-intuitive. Wait for them to approach us? How will they even know what we offer?

Ketut: Well, the sign "taxi" on the roof is a give-away...

Nyoman: There is that, yes. But what about friendship? What about the special price?

Ketut: Maybe those USPs are best discussed after initial interest in out service has been demonstrated.

Nyoman (resumes smoking): So...what now? We see a white person, we don't yell at them at all?

Ketut: No, instead we should probably focus on creating some brand awareness in our core market. What do you think of a nation-wide telemarketing campaign?

Nyoman: Targetted?

Ketut: Of course: targetted at everyone! I can already feel the goodwill for our business!