---
layout: post
title: "Oman - Probably the right place, definitely the wrong time"
date: 2015-11-22 16-10-24
published: false
---

Oman is a country I had long been looking forward to seeing. Google that stuff and you'll see why: fantastic landscapes, the desert, mountains, wadis, all the things. Thus motivated I left Bahrain with a heavy heart but generally optimistic about my next destination. Sure, it would be the start of summer there and very hot. Of course, Ramadan would still be in full swing. It would be fine though!

So I got onto a plane in Bahrain, had a quick pit-stop in Dubai and then landed in Muscat, Oman in the late evening. As soon as I stepped out of the plane, I began to suspect that I had made a mistake there. It was dark outside, and yet infernally hot. Within a few moments the humidity began to condensate on my AC-cooled skin and mixed with the sweat pouring out of me. By the time I reached the taxi stand I was soaked (and somewhat grumpy). I then had a pleasant taxi ride with a semi-suicidal choleric with some racist leanings, who kept insulting Indian drivers while doing terrible, terrible things to his own car, city traffic and humanity in general.

Interestinly, Oman was the first country in which I would describe taxi drivers as aggressive in their marketing. The whole nine yards of stepping in your way and just asking you "where you go? WHERE YOU GO?" This hadn't happened much in other countries.
Another curious fact is that the taxi business in Oman is legally restricted to Omanis, making it a protected industry. Unfortunately, that didn't give me the best first impression of this county's citizens.

Oman is interesting in that it's the poorest gulf country as it's not sitting on tons of oil. Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said (and in some ways his father, who he coup'ed off the throne in 1970) have dealt with that by heavily promoting free education and people not sitting on their asses. Omanis also have a reputation for being particularly humble and down-to-earth. 


