---
layout: post
title: Athens
date: 2015-04-05 12-30-24
published: false
---

##At least it's warm...wait, no, it's not

I left Trikala soaking wet but excited to finally see Athens. At the coach station I bid farewell to my Canadian travel companion and stepped aboard the coach for a well-deserved nap. The road to Athens was sneaking up over hills and mountain passes. The view from up there, I have to assume, must be stunning on a clear day. Alas, all I saw was grey: The same fog that had shrouded Meteora was now hanging over the mountain roads. Just as well, at least I didn't miss anything once I went - you guessed it - to sleep.

Roughly halfway through the 5-hour drive I was woken by the bus driver turning up the radio. I'm sure the lyrics of Greek pop music are deep and meaningful and all that. And those music videos with very tan men and women looking all serious and longing while being surprisingly underdressed? Rich in symbolism and artistic depth! 

Invigorated by the catchy tunes I was able to observe the vistas along the North Euboean Gulf:

[images]

I also observed an oncoming column of battle tanks, transported on heavy trucks. It's a pity I didn't manage to snap a good picture, because tanks are decidedly awesome!

Unfortunately, my enjoyment of Greek pop music was cut short: Since I had booked an AirBnB apartment in the northern part of Athens, the bus driver agreed to let me out close to that Area.

Good news: Short walk to the apartment. Bad news: Turns out I had screwed up my booking, leaving me without a roof over my head, standing in a part of the city which a realtor might describe as "quirky, multicultural and lively". I managed to find a cafe with wifi (and with a lot of coming and going in the backrooms). From there I booked a hostel. Apparently you can get passable hostels for 8 euro per night. Anything cheaper than that, you'll have to bring your own cockroaches.

I spent the evening walking around Patisia. The evening was rainy, but marked by that special tranquility and peace that only lots of police in full-on riot gear bring about.

The next day I moved into the AirBnB apartment, all 18sqm of it. It was...economical. 

**Lesson 003:** *My impression is that AirBnB in Greece just isn't worth it. The main argument for AirBnB would be the privacy of having a flat to yourself. That's not what you get under 20 euros per night though. Instead, you'll have a sofa in somebody's living room. So if you're going to share the space with others anyway, hostels provide a much cheaper and more flexible option.
My favorites so far have been Little Big House (Thessaloniki) and Quinta (Athens), both of which charge around 15 euro per night. Small, friendly hostels. On a totally unrelated note, both of them offer free, unlimited coffee. Free. Unlimited. Coffee.*

I spent the next 3-4 days exploring the area and taking in the many facets of this colourful district. As far as I'm concerned, it should be burned and the scorched earth then salted generously, but that's just me.

Inspired to seek out other parts of the city, I also ventured into the city centre (a 15-minute walk) and had a look at Syntagma square and some of the more touristy areas. Mostly though I stayed indoors to escape the frequent rain. I got a lot of reading done, but there was no denying that I felt a bit cheated. Come on, Greece, get your act together!


##Finally lobstered
Once my booking ran out, I checked out and hiked over to the aforementioned Hotel Quinta. 'Twas a crisp, sunny morning and I found the place in a district much closer to the city centre. Located just 5 minutes walking distance from the foot of Lycavitus Hill, the entire neighbourhood is full of small, student-y cafes and bars. 

After the somewhat dreary AirBnB the hostel was an amazing surprise: I wandered around a lovingly graffiti-d block twice before I found the entrance in an alley. After ringing the doorbell I was led into a beautiful house with sky-high ceilings and decorations that were so ornate that they almost felt a bit ironic. Just to give you an impression, here are the lobby:

[image]
The upstairs hallway:
[image]

And the hostel dog (a million years old and clinging to her furry life):
[image]

I stayed here for a week. During the first day, I went for a long walk in the city centre with another German guy I met at the hostel. Wandering around the ruins of the Ancient Agora and the Roman Agora we enjoyed the view of the Acropolis hill and the remnamts of the Parthenon up top. This decidedly touristy area is full of enterprising young businessmen (or annoying, shit-peddling cutthroats, depending on just how much you want that guaranteed-to-be-original Rolex for 20 quid).

[image]

The next day, I got up early and climbed up Lycavitus Hill. The hill is the highest point in the city and located smack in the middle of it. Having read about the view from up there, I grabbed a cup of coffee and started climbing the steep, steep roads up to the foot of the hill. From there, a circling path winds around the hill and through a light forest. I took a short break on one of the lower peaks to enjoy the view:

[image]

After catching my breath, I continued upwards to the highest point of the hill, which is - of course - adorned by a cafe. I passed through the cafe, empty at that hour, and reached the peak which is marked by a chapel and a huge Greek flag. The view from up there was stunning:

[image]

The next day I met up with my Canadian co-traveller and we went to see Acropolis Hill and the amazing ruins of the Parthenon. It was an amazingly sunny day, but for some reason I figured I didn't really need sunscreen. The pictures speak for themselves:

[image]

Finally, I was properly burned. What would a trip be without 2nd-degree burns? Fun fact: Sunscreen is a shameless racket in this country. 150ml of SPF 50 set me back 14 euros in Athens. On the islands, I would see bottles of 200ml for 24 euros. So if any of you are interested in import/export, you should consider shipping sunscreen here. The margins would be worth it, I'm sure. 






##