---
layout: post
title: "Delhi - Seeing the city"
date: 2015-12-04 16-10-24
published: false
---





Once again, I'm writing at an airport. It's an easy environment for that: Wifi, coffee and nowhere to go for the next two hours. This time it's Saigon airport. Is Saigon airport possibly less presentable than, say, airports in Berlin? Nope. It's a nice airport. On my entire journey so far, Berlin Schönefeldt remains the shoddiest airport I've seen...

Unfortunately I find myself sitting next to a delightful Vietnamese guy who's been hawking up about a gallon of snot over the last half hour. 

So let's get on with it then, shall we?

----

Despite my first impressions, I would end up staying in Delhi for over a week. Given that I only had a 30-day visa, this may have been a bit much, but the experience was valueable nonethless. Delhi lists about 20 million inhabitants. There, think about that for a second. Sure, I was aware that India had a about **[[]]1.X[[]]** billion people. Weirdly, that figure is hard to grasp until you see what that looks like in practice.



Here, let's change up the format of this a little: I'm just going to describe a few memorable moments here instead of doing the drawn-out "and then I went THERE and did THAT". And you'll go ahead and find it artsy!


### Traffic - Holy crap, I'm going to die!






### Helloooo, my friend! Where you from?

### The Sikh temple

One downside of traveling by yourself is that every now and then you find yourself with zero motivation in a place you should find interesting. And nobody else does anything about it! It was one of those days. I was lying on my bunk at the hostel doing nothing. Not reading anything, not watching anything, not listening to anything - not even thinking about anything, really. I was mainly enjoying the relative cool and quiet, while outside the sun was roasting that particular sensory overload that is Delhi. Unbidden, the realisation that I only had one more day left in Delhi popped in my head, followed by the guilty admission that I really should be more travel-ly. In my experience, people tend to underestimate the energy required for travel. It's those people that tend to message you "Oh, why are you inside? You should be out, exploring stuff!" Why don't you go out yourself, smartass!

While I find it easy enough to ignore those awful yay-sayers, tuning out that nagging voice in my head was a lot more difficult. Eventually I dragged myself out of bed and stepped out into the heat, the noise and the chaos. 

Somebody had mentioned that there was a beautiful Sikh temple not too far away. Sikh are the guys with the turbans, in case you were wondering, and they tend to build nice temples. So I found myself a tuktuk/auto and got myself dropped off at Connaught Place, from where I would walk the remaining stretch. 

The residential neighbourhood surrounding the temple is oddly calm and quiet. I see few people in the streets, and the buildings and trees absorb most of the noise. Instead of people I see monkeys (and the occasional security guard failing to chase them off with sticks). Monkeys tend to be egotistical, ungrateful assholes prone to violence, shrieking and poop-flinging (lending a whole lot of support the the idea of evolution). In Europe we don't get monkeys, which sadly means that most poop remains un-flung but makes those animals all the more interesting when I finally get to see them.

[[image]]

A hundred meters a low hum rises above the silence of the area. Soon I reach an intersection and spy a white tower with a gilded [[kuppel?]] loom over the block. The hum turns out to be a huge crowd around what must be the temple. As I get closer, the crowd of colourfully dressed families closes around me. The chatter, singing and sound of bells is deafening. I can smell food and a lot of burning incense. 

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150726_172105.jpg

I end up following the crowd through a white gate onto a square in front of the temple. Everybody else is taking off their shoes and leaves them at a wardrobe outside the temple. I follow suit and then let the flow of people carry me up the stairs. A young Sikh stops me and hands me a scarf, which I tie around my head, covering my hair. After a few minutes, the result is acceptable, though it leaves him and his friends grinning broadly. Whatever man!

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150726_172712.jpg

The temple is made up of two parts: The prayer hall itself, which a continuous stream of people passes through, and an outside area of a large pool with a roofed archway around it. Everything is made of white stone with intricate inlays. Gold twinkles in the sun. I decide to take a walk around the pool, together with many other visitors. The atmosphere outside is relaxed: People chat and laugh together, children run around playing and several visitors sit down under the arches and eat. Many visitors take a ritual bath in the pool, surrounded by others taking selfies in front of th spectacular temple.

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150726_173759.jpg

As the clouds grow darker and darker, I decide to sit down under the arches for a break. Every few minutes, small groups break off from the stream of passers-by and come up to me, asking for a picture with me. I don't really see a reason to decline, so I obediently pose for a few pictures and exchange a few handshakes. Unfortunately, many of them seem a bit too shy for conversation. 

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150726_174122.jpg












### Lunch in Old Delhi
One afternoon I'm meant to meet my friend Arko in the Old Town of Delhi, a bustling part of town a little east of Paharganj, where I was staying. 


/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150728_125207.jpg


/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150728_143649.jpg
/Users/arne/Google Drive/Google Fotos/IMG_20150728_145826.jpg



### Tuktuk drivers in India



### A talk by R. Guha





### Taj Mahal on a daytrip




