---
layout: post
title: "Muscat"
date: 2015-07-12 20-10-24
published: false
---



One thing is for certain: I arrived in Oman at the wrongestly wrong-wrong time possible. For starters, it's still Ramadan. While it's easy to appreciate the time of the year where families grow closer and people contemplate their own places in the world, it makes for lousy logistics (see article on Bahrain). Adding to that, it's summer. Summer in the Middle East, which is famous for lush greenery and a pleasantly temperate...no, sorry: Deserts. It's only the start of summer but even that is noticably hot. Ah, yes: The heat. As I got off the plane in Muscat, I was smacked in the face by the hot winds whistling over the dark airfield. 

Where I come from, nights are colder than days. That's true here as well, but only by about 2°C. Given a day temperature of 45°C that really isn't much help to anyone. Where I come from, you bask in sunshine because it is rare and precious. Here, accidentally turning your gaze towards the sun feels like somebody is taking out your contact lenses with a rusty chisel. Where I come from, bodies exposed to heat cool themselves through evaporating perspiration. Here, the merciless heat laughs at your puny defense mechanisms: The air has some 60-90% humidity so there is virtually no evaporation. You - and by that I mean I - definitely sweat, though. A lot. Unfortunately it's pointless since the cooling mechanism doesn't work, but your - my - body's response is to just sweat even more. 

So after I cleared immigration and customs I stepped back out into the heat around 11pm.

[[Lesson XYZ: Technically, I had a stop at the airport Costa Coffee first. Yes, in part because coffee is the last chemical addiction left to me and I cultivate it religiously. But also, because it's a useful arrival ritual of mine. Firstly, getting that one cup of coffee gives my brain some time to catch up and come to terms with where I am. Secondly, it gives me a chance to have a look around, take in what the people look like and what the general atmosphere is like. Thirdly, I use the time to do smalltalk with the cafe staff and ask them for the best way to get into town. This is also a good way of finding out what constitutes an acceptable price for the journey. And all that for the price of a cup of coffee! Or tea, if you want to be childish about it...]]

Outside, I was immediately approached by several taxi drivers. It was with some satisfaction that I noticed most of them were also sweating in the night heat. The initial price to get me to my hotel (at the other end of Greater Muscat) was 18 OMR (~45 EUR). My counter-offer was 3 OMR (~7.5 EUR). In the end, we settled on 6 OMR (~15 EUR). Suffice to say, the driver wasn't interested in smalltalk anymore, which I took as a good sign at that point. In hindsight I think I could have gotten lower but it was late and I was feeling rather lazy.

Interestingly, taxis in Oman are exclusively driven by Omanis. Regulation excludes immigrants from that profession. The low gas prices of around 0.30 EUR/l mean that the cost of driving a cab is fairly low, too. However, cabs here are not priced by a meter. Instead, fares are pre-arranged. At that point, profit margins come into play:

Being obviously foreign, I've been offered a ridiculous starting price by every single driver. Then we go through several rounds of me saying "Oh no, the guy from the [hotel/travel agency/airport/shop] said it was only X OMR. I can't afford your price of Y OMR. I guess I'll go look for a bus then..." And then you just keep repeating that on autopilot as Y slowly approaches X. I'm beginning to find the whole experience a bit tedious. Interestingly, I've also had several cases where the driver would try to coax a bit more cash out of me upon reaching the destination (usually 2-3 OMR) because of supposed detours, roadworks, whatever. I guess that situation must be difficult for people who struggle to say no.





