---
layout: post
title: "Tbilisi"
date: 2015-06-05 20-10-24
published: false
---

Ah, yes: the writing. The writing which I promised to do regularly. *That* writing...

After finishing the above three sentences in an agonizing fifteen minutes, I got up and fetched myself a cup of coffee. Then I groaned to myself a little and pulled my own hair for a bit. But now I'm good. Excited to continue the tale!

-------

I left off - I remember distantly - when I took a coach from Batumi to Tbilisi. Metro, the coach company I had used so frequently in Turkey, offered a comfortable 5-hour trip to Tbilisi. Being the lazy sort I had a relaxed breakfast in Batumi first, and then got on the coach in the early afternoon. We drove up north along the coast for about two hours before turning east and driving into the country, towards the capital. I'll spare you the details, but here is the summary: Georgia is beautiful. Really, really beautiful. That's about it.

We reached the outskirts of Tbilisi in the late afternoon. Remember what I wrote about Batumi looking pleasantly post-apocalyptic? The outer districts of Tbilisi looked worse. Within half an hour we went from "Oh, pretty hills!" to "Oh, a rat!" to "Oh, a guy...barbecueing a rat". This surprised me, since I had heard very positive things about Tbilisi in general. Luckily, my concerns were unfounded:

I got off the coach near the city centre and found myself standing in the middle of a neat-looking high street (Rustaveli Avenue), which also leads to the parliament and the Georgian National Museum.  

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150525_195121.jpg

When I arrived, the entire road was blocked for traffic, as they were preparing for a parade: People were in the process of erecting stages and assembling stands. Bands were practicing and every available space was covered in billboards and posters. Despite the commotion I managed to find a cafe with wifi and find myself a suitable hostel. Then I shouldered my way back through the crowd and towards the southern part of town.

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150525_195532.jpg
(Liberty Square, at the southern end of Rustaveli Avenue)

There, right at the foot of a massive hill and under the remains of Narikala Fortress I found the excellent Envoy Hostel. On top of all other amenities, it had a fantastic roof terrace!

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150525_201831.jpg
(View from the hostel roof terrace)

After dark, I ventured down the hill and found myself something to eat. Next, I followed a bridge into a park on the other side of the river, and spent some time reading there.

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150525_203552.jpg
(The park. That subtle, understated building in the background? The presidential palace.)

Afterwards, I called it an early night and headed back across the river and to bed!

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150525_214627.jpg
(Shiny bridge.)


The next day I heard from the hostel staff that I had actually managed to arrive just in time for Georgian independence day (May 26th). Curious, I headed out towards liberty square and had a look at the little military parade organized there.

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150526_112531.jpg

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150526_112644.jpg

Since the whole affair wasn't as action-packed as I had hoped, I decided to ignore the festivities and get coffee instead. That's pretty much what I did on my second day in Tbilisi.

/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150527_164627.jpg
(Came up to me, looked at me, sat down on me.)





/Users/arne/Google Drive/Camera Uploads/IMG_20150528_105524.jpg
(View of Narikala Fortress from the foot of the hill)



